My Reflection on the Case Against Grades by Alfie Kohn

Reading Alfie Kohn’s “A Case Against Grades” article took me back to summer when I took a software development course. In this course we would submit a project every week as part of our assessment. The deadline to submit was on Sunday. Each student was encouraged to submit their project even if they felt it was not satisfactory. On Monday morning, the instructor would ask anyone in class who felt that they needed to make changes to their project or rather to continue working on their project, to send an email notifying the instructor so that they were not graded before they were satisfied with their own work. The instructor would also ask the students who felt that their assignment was satisfactory to have meetings with the students who were stuck on their projects and help them out. The instructor would also be available for questions throughout the day. Every week there would be a set of expectations or objectives to be achieved by the class and the assignment was to reflect that a student had met those objectives. The instructor would not grade assignments that had fallen short of meeting at least seventy percent of the objectives and a student would continue to work on their project until this was achieved. 

In this class, I stopped worrying about what my grade would be even if I was still being graded but rather, I focused on meeting the set objectives and ticking off a box of tasks completed or rather skills gained. Competition was not a factor in this class because the significance of grades was reduced and students mostly focused on collaboration as well as meeting the set objectives of the course. We would have morning meetings where the instructor broke down the content of the day, then we would go through the content on our own whilst attempting exercises and making note of any problematic areas which we would report in the evening meeting and then break into small groups where we would discuss and help each other out in those areas. 

After completing the course, I noticed that the grade I got did not concern me. It was a good grade but it did not matter as much as the learning process did and the skills I took away from the course. Even if some students would have higher grades than others, every student had gained the basic skills or take away that the course was meant to teach each weak. Most of all students did not view each other as competition but as project collaborators. When I contrast this course with other courses I have taken in the traditional learning setting of grading, I can see why Kohn’s argument makes sense. I notice that in the past I was not concerned with the process of learning, a sense of achievement came from scoring highly on a test as opposed to enjoying the process of learning and generating ideas. Grades also encourage students to strive to outdo each other as opposed to working together. I think that more issues around the world are better solved through collaboration than competition.  Emphasis on grades is what creates a big divide between theoretical knowledge from academia and industry solutions. Students only ever think about solving world issues when they are about to finish school so that they can secure employment. However, if emphasis was placed on learning, idea generation and collaboration, we would see more solutions to societal problems come out of classrooms instead of just a piece of paper. 

Grades to me represent the society’s obsession with ranking people, categorizing and assigning labels to people such as an A student and so forth. Learning without grading would represent critical thought as opposed to memorization of concepts and the motivation to learn would come from solving a problem or gaining a skill to solve a problem. 

The problem with traditional learning is that whenever a course is viewed as difficult by students, they focus on solving as many past exam questions as possible as opposed to picking a topic apart and thinking about how to apply the knowledge from the course being studied in real life. Graduates would rather not have to answer the question of a “low grade” from an employer, than show what they could do with the knowledge gained from such a class. It is my belief that knowledge is not useful unless it can be applied to solve real problems that humans of today are struggling with and this can only be achieved if an alternative method of assessment is adopted in academia hence why Kohn’s idea of scrapping grades resonates with me.
